# This file was autogenerated by uv via the following command:
#    uv pip compile test/requirements.in -o test/requirements.txt
aiofiles==23.2.1
    # via gradio
altair==5.5.0
    # via -r test/requirements.in
annotated-types==0.7.0
    # via pydantic
anyio==4.8.0
    # via
    #   gradio
    #   httpx
    #   starlette
asttokens==3.0.0
    # via stack-data
asyncio==3.4.3
    # via -r test/requirements.in
attrs==25.1.0
    # via
    #   hypothesis
    #   jsonschema
    #   referencing
boto3==1.36.8
    # via -r test/requirements.in
botocore==1.36.8
    # via
    #   boto3
    #   s3transfer
certifi==2024.12.14
    # via
    #   httpcore
    #   httpx
    #   requests
charset-normalizer==3.4.1
    # via requests
click==8.1.8
    # via
    #   typer
    #   uvicorn
contourpy==1.3.1
    # via matplotlib
coverage==7.6.10
    # via
    #   -r test/requirements.in
    #   pytest-cov
cycler==0.12.1
    # via matplotlib
decorator==5.1.1
    # via ipython
diffusers==0.32.2
    # via -r test/requirements.in
dnspython==2.7.0
    # via email-validator
email-validator==2.2.0
    # via pydantic
executing==2.2.0
    # via stack-data
fastapi==0.115.7
    # via
    #   -r test/requirements.in
    #   gradio
ffmpy==0.5.0
    # via gradio
filelock==3.17.0
    # via
    #   diffusers
    #   huggingface-hub
    #   torch
    #   transformers
fonttools==4.55.7
    # via matplotlib
fsspec==2024.12.0
    # via
    #   gradio-client
    #   huggingface-hub
    #   torch
gradio==5.10.0
    # via
    #   -r test/requirements.in
    #   gradio-pdf
gradio-client==1.5.3
    # via gradio
gradio-pdf==0.0.21
    # via -r test/requirements.in
h11==0.14.0
    # via
    #   httpcore
    #   uvicorn
httpcore==1.0.7
    # via httpx
httpx==0.28.1
    # via
    #   -r test/requirements.in
    #   gradio
    #   gradio-client
    #   respx
    #   safehttpx
huggingface-hub==0.28.0
    # via
    #   -r test/requirements.in
    #   diffusers
    #   gradio
    #   gradio-client
    #   tokenizers
    #   transformers
hypothesis==6.124.7
    # via -r test/requirements.in
idna==3.10
    # via
    #   anyio
    #   email-validator
    #   httpx
    #   requests
imageio==2.37.0
    # via scikit-image
importlib-metadata==8.6.1
    # via diffusers
iniconfig==2.0.0
    # via pytest
ipython==8.31.0
    # via -r test/requirements.in
jedi==0.19.2
    # via ipython
jinja2==3.1.5
    # via
    #   altair
    #   gradio
    #   torch
jmespath==1.0.1
    # via
    #   boto3
    #   botocore
jsonschema==4.23.0
    # via altair
jsonschema-specifications==2024.10.1
    # via jsonschema
kiwisolver==1.4.8
    # via matplotlib
lazy-loader==0.4
    # via scikit-image
markdown-it-py==3.0.0
    # via rich
markupsafe==2.1.5
    # via
    #   gradio
    #   jinja2
matplotlib==3.10.0
    # via -r test/requirements.in
matplotlib-inline==0.1.7
    # via ipython
mdurl==0.1.2
    # via markdown-it-py
mpmath==1.3.0
    # via sympy
narwhals==1.24.1
    # via altair
networkx==3.4.2
    # via
    #   scikit-image
    #   torch
numpy==2.2.2
    # via
    #   contourpy
    #   diffusers
    #   gradio
    #   imageio
    #   matplotlib
    #   pandas
    #   scikit-image
    #   scipy
    #   tifffile
    #   transformers
orjson==3.10.15
    # via gradio
packaging==24.2
    # via
    #   altair
    #   gradio
    #   gradio-client
    #   huggingface-hub
    #   lazy-loader
    #   matplotlib
    #   pytest
    #   pytest-rerunfailures
    #   scikit-image
    #   transformers
pandas==2.2.3
    # via
    #   gradio
    #   vega-datasets
parso==0.8.4
    # via jedi
pexpect==4.9.0
    # via ipython
pillow==11.1.0
    # via
    #   diffusers
    #   gradio
    #   imageio
    #   matplotlib
    #   scikit-image
pluggy==1.5.0
    # via pytest
polars==0.20.5
    # via -r test/requirements.in
prompt-toolkit==3.0.50
    # via ipython
ptyprocess==0.7.0
    # via pexpect
pure-eval==0.2.3
    # via stack-data
pydantic==2.10.6
    # via
    #   -r test/requirements.in
    #   fastapi
    #   gradio
pydantic-core==2.27.2
    # via pydantic
pydub==0.25.1
    # via gradio
pygments==2.19.1
    # via
    #   ipython
    #   rich
pyparsing==3.2.1
    # via matplotlib
pytest==8.3.4
    # via
    #   -r test/requirements.in
    #   pytest-asyncio
    #   pytest-cov
    #   pytest-rerunfailures
pytest-asyncio==0.25.3
    # via -r test/requirements.in
pytest-cov==6.0.0
    # via -r test/requirements.in
pytest-rerunfailures==15.0
    # via -r test/requirements.in
python-dateutil==2.9.0.post0
    # via
    #   botocore
    #   matplotlib
    #   pandas
python-multipart==0.0.20
    # via gradio
pytz==2024.2
    # via pandas
pyyaml==6.0.2
    # via
    #   gradio
    #   huggingface-hub
    #   transformers
referencing==0.36.2
    # via
    #   jsonschema
    #   jsonschema-specifications
regex==2024.11.6
    # via
    #   diffusers
    #   transformers
requests==2.32.3
    # via
    #   diffusers
    #   huggingface-hub
    #   transformers
respx==0.22.0
    # via -r test/requirements.in
rich==13.9.4
    # via typer
rpds-py==0.22.3
    # via
    #   jsonschema
    #   referencing
ruff==0.9.3
    # via
    #   -r test/requirements.in
    #   gradio
s3transfer==0.11.2
    # via boto3
safehttpx==0.1.6
    # via gradio
safetensors==0.5.2
    # via
    #   diffusers
    #   transformers
scikit-image==0.25.1
    # via -r test/requirements.in
scipy==1.15.1
    # via scikit-image
semantic-version==2.10.0
    # via gradio
shellingham==1.5.4
    # via typer
six==1.17.0
    # via python-dateutil
sniffio==1.3.1
    # via anyio
sortedcontainers==2.4.0
    # via hypothesis
stack-data==0.6.3
    # via ipython
starlette==0.45.3
    # via
    #   fastapi
    #   gradio
sympy==1.13.1
    # via torch
tifffile==2025.1.10
    # via scikit-image
tokenizers==0.21.0
    # via transformers
tomlkit==0.13.2
    # via gradio
torch==2.6.0
    # via -r test/requirements.in
tqdm==4.67.1
    # via
    #   -r test/requirements.in
    #   huggingface-hub
    #   transformers
traitlets==5.14.3
    # via
    #   ipython
    #   matplotlib-inline
transformers==4.48.1
    # via -r test/requirements.in
typer==0.15.1
    # via gradio
typing-extensions==4.12.2
    # via
    #   altair
    #   anyio
    #   fastapi
    #   gradio
    #   gradio-client
    #   huggingface-hub
    #   ipython
    #   pydantic
    #   pydantic-core
    #   referencing
    #   torch
    #   typer
tzdata==2025.1
    # via pandas
urllib3==2.3.0
    # via
    #   botocore
    #   requests
uvicorn==0.34.0
    # via gradio
vega-datasets==0.9.0
    # via -r test/requirements.in
wcwidth==0.2.13
    # via prompt-toolkit
websockets==14.2
    # via gradio-client
zipp==3.21.0
    # via importlib-metadata
