CONTRIBUTING.md, before:

# Contributing to Gradio

Prequisites:

* Python 3.7+
* Node 16.0+ (optional for backend-only changes, but needed for any frontend changes)
* pnpm version 6.x

More than 30 awesome developers have contributed to the `gradio` library, and we'd be thrilled if you would like be the next `gradio` contributor! You can start by forking or cloning the repo (https://github.com/gradio-app/gradio.git) and creating your own branch to work from.

### Install Gradio locally from the `main` branch

* Clone this repo
* Navigate to the repo folder and run

```bash
bash scripts/install_gradio.sh
```

* Build the front end

```
bash scripts/build_frontend.sh
```


### Install development and testing requirements

* Navigate to the repo folder and install test requirements (note that it is highly recommended to use a virtual environment since the versions are pinned)

```
bash scripts/install_test_requirements.sh
```
* It is recommended to use **Python 3.9** for development. If you have a different Python version and conflicting packages during the installation, you can run

```
bash scripts/create_test_requirements.sh
```
```
bash scripts/install_test_requirements.sh
```

* Run the tests

```
bash scripts/run_all_tests.sh
```

* You can also start a local frontend development server (on port 3000 by default) that responds to any changes in the frontend.

```
bash scripts/run_frontend.sh
```

### Structure of the Repository

It's helpful to know the overall structure of the repository so that you can focus on the part of the source code you'd like to contribute to

* `/gradio`: contains the Python source code for the library
    * `/gradio/interface.py`: contains the Python source code for the core `Interface` class
    * `/gradio/blocks.py`: contains the Python source code for the core `Blocks` class
    * `/gradio/components.py`: contains the Python source code for the `components`, you can add your custom components here.
* `/ui`: contains the HTML/JS/CSS source code for the library ([start here for frontend changes](/ui/README.md))
* `/test`: contains Python unit tests for the library
* `/demo`: contains demos that are used in the documentation, you can find `Gradio` examples over here.
* `/website`: contains the code for the Gradio website (www.gradio.app). See the README in the `/website` folder for more details

### Continuous Integration and Testing

All PRs must pass the continuous integration tests before merging. To test locally, you can run `python -m unittest` from the repo directory.

## Submitting PRs

All PRs should be against `main`. Direct commits to main are blocked, and PRs require an approving review to merge into main. By convention, the Gradio maintainers will review PRs when:

* An initial review has been requested, and
* A maintainer (@abidlabs, @aliabid94, @aliabd, @AK391, @dawoodkhan82, @pngwn, @farukozderim) is tagged in the PR comments and asked to complete a review

We ask that you make sure initial CI checks are passing before requesting a review. One of the Gradio maintainers will merge the PR when all the checks are passing.

Do not forget the format the backend before pushing.
```
bash scripts/format_backend.sh
```
```
bash scripts/format_frontend.sh
```
You can run the circleci checks locally as well. 
```
bash scripts/run_circleci.sh
```

*Could these guidelines be clearer? Feel free to open a PR to help us faciltiate open-source contributions!*

Commit message:

reload-dev-mode (#1370)
* reload-dev-mode

- add dev reload mode

* reload-dev-mode

- support reload mode from different directories as well

* reload-dev-mode

- add file reload to the dev-reload-mode

* Update contributing

* Update CONTRIBUTING.md

Co-authored-by: Abubakar Abid <abubakar@huggingface.co>

* reload-dev-mode

- fetch gradio_folder with inspect, allowing running in reload dev mode from any directory
- unite user and dev reload mode

Co-authored-by: Abubakar Abid <abubakar@huggingface.co>

CONTRIBUTING.md, after:

# Contributing to Gradio

Prequisites:

* Python 3.7+
* Node 16.0+ (optional for backend-only changes, but needed for any frontend changes)
* pnpm version 6.x

More than 30 awesome developers have contributed to the `gradio` library, and we'd be thrilled if you would like be the next `gradio` contributor! You can start by forking or cloning the repo (https://github.com/gradio-app/gradio.git) and creating your own branch to work from.

### Install Gradio locally from the `main` branch

* Clone this repo
* Navigate to the repo folder and run

```bash
bash scripts/install_gradio.sh
```

* Build the front end

```
bash scripts/build_frontend.sh
```


### Install development and testing requirements

* Navigate to the repo folder and install test requirements (note that it is highly recommended to use a virtual environment since the versions are pinned)

```
bash scripts/install_test_requirements.sh
```
* It is recommended to use **Python 3.9** for development. If you have a different Python version and conflicting packages during the installation, you can run

```
bash scripts/create_test_requirements.sh
```
```
bash scripts/install_test_requirements.sh
```

* You can run gradio scripts in developer reload mode which will watch for changes in the `gradio` folder and reload the app if changes are made.
```
gradio-dev app.py
```

* Run the tests

```
bash scripts/run_all_tests.sh
```

* You can also start a local frontend development server (on port 3000 by default) that responds to any changes in the frontend.

```
bash scripts/run_frontend.sh
```

### Structure of the Repository

It's helpful to know the overall structure of the repository so that you can focus on the part of the source code you'd like to contribute to

* `/gradio`: contains the Python source code for the library
    * `/gradio/interface.py`: contains the Python source code for the core `Interface` class
    * `/gradio/blocks.py`: contains the Python source code for the core `Blocks` class
    * `/gradio/components.py`: contains the Python source code for the `components`, you can add your custom components here.
* `/ui`: contains the HTML/JS/CSS source code for the library ([start here for frontend changes](/ui/README.md))
* `/test`: contains Python unit tests for the library
* `/demo`: contains demos that are used in the documentation, you can find `Gradio` examples over here.
* `/website`: contains the code for the Gradio website (www.gradio.app). See the README in the `/website` folder for more details

### Continuous Integration and Testing

All PRs must pass the continuous integration tests before merging. To test locally, you can run `python -m unittest` from the repo directory.

## Submitting PRs

All PRs should be against `main`. Direct commits to main are blocked, and PRs require an approving review to merge into main. By convention, the Gradio maintainers will review PRs when:

* An initial review has been requested, and
* A maintainer (@abidlabs, @aliabid94, @aliabd, @AK391, @dawoodkhan82, @pngwn, @farukozderim) is tagged in the PR comments and asked to complete a review

We ask that you make sure initial CI checks are passing before requesting a review. One of the Gradio maintainers will merge the PR when all the checks are passing.

Do not forget the format the backend before pushing.
```
bash scripts/format_backend.sh
```
```
bash scripts/format_frontend.sh
```
You can run the circleci checks locally as well. 
```
bash scripts/run_circleci.sh
```

*Could these guidelines be clearer? Feel free to open a PR to help us faciltiate open-source contributions!*
