guides/3)building_with_blocks/4)custom_CSS_and_JS.md, before:

# Custom JS and CSS

## Custom CSS

For additional styling ability, you can pass any CSS to your app using the `css=` kwarg:

```python
with gr.Blocks(css="body {background-color: red}") as demo:
    ...
```

If you'd like to reference external files in your css, preface the file path (which can be a relative or absolute path) with `"file="`, for example:

```python
with gr.Blocks(css="body {background-image: url('file=clouds.jpg')}") as demo:
    ...
```

You can also pass the filepath to a CSS file to the `css` argument.

## The `elem_id` Argument

You can `elem_id` to add an HTML element `id` to any component. This will allow you to select elements more easily with CSS.

```python
with gr.Blocks(css="#warning {color: red}") as demo:
    box1 = gr.Textbox(value="Good Job")
    box2 = gr.Textbox(value="Failure", elem_id="warning")
```

The CSS ruleset will only target the second Textbox here.

## Custom JS

Event listeners have a `_js` argument that can take a Javascript function as a string and treat it just like a Python event listener function. You can pass both a Javascript function and a Python function (in which case the Javascript function is run first) or only Javascript (and set the Python `fn` to `None`). Take a look at the code below:

$code_blocks_js_methods
$demo_blocks_js_methods

Commit message:

changed the documentation for background styling (#2275)
* changed the body to .gradio-container #2270

* changed body to .gradio-container #2270

* added a description #2270

Co-authored-by: Freddy Boulton <alfonsoboulton@gmail.com>

guides/3)building_with_blocks/4)custom_CSS_and_JS.md, after:

# Custom JS and CSS

## Custom CSS

For additional styling ability, you can pass any CSS to your app using the `css=` kwarg.

The base class for the Gradio app is `gradio-container`, so here's an example that changes the background color of the Gradio app:
```python
with gr.Blocks(css=".gradio-container {background-color: red}") as demo:
    ...
```

If you'd like to reference external files in your css, preface the file path (which can be a relative or absolute path) with `"file="`, for example:

```python
with gr.Blocks(css=".gradio-container {background-image: url('file=clouds.jpg')}") as demo:
    ...
```

You can also pass the filepath to a CSS file to the `css` argument.

## The `elem_id` Argument

You can `elem_id` to add an HTML element `id` to any component. This will allow you to select elements more easily with CSS.

```python
with gr.Blocks(css="#warning {color: red}") as demo:
    box1 = gr.Textbox(value="Good Job")
    box2 = gr.Textbox(value="Failure", elem_id="warning")
```

The CSS ruleset will only target the second Textbox here.

## Custom JS

Event listeners have a `_js` argument that can take a Javascript function as a string and treat it just like a Python event listener function. You can pass both a Javascript function and a Python function (in which case the Javascript function is run first) or only Javascript (and set the Python `fn` to `None`). Take a look at the code below:

$code_blocks_js_methods
$demo_blocks_js_methods
